Introduction and Feedback Loop
So before I start talking about, uh, Gabor filters and what they are, um. Pointer seems to. Okay. Um. I want to say something about, uh, scientific jargon. So, uh, I been doing I've been doing computer science since I was 14. So I use a lot of terms that come with computer science and come with using, uh, programming. If you don't know a term, I just want you to raise your hand and be like, hey, I have no idea what you're talking about. What do you mean by this term? Because then you actually understand more of the lecture. And the goal of these lectures is that you should be able to understand the content that's in the slides throughout these two hours of the lecture, and then hopefully not have to sit at home and go over them again. So try to ask as much as possible during the lecture so you can at least get something out of it by being here, present in the in the room. Um, if you don't feel comfortable raising your hand and asking, uh, what a word means, you can also just, uh, send it via email. Just send me a list of. These are all the words you said during the last lecture, and I didn't know what they meant. And then I'll keep that in mind for for next time and try to explain those. Um, today we're going to talk about Gabor filters. And for that, uh, maybe already I'm going to ask you what is a filter? Gabor is a name. It's the person that created the filters. But does any of you know what what a filter is? Moves certain frequencies from a picture or. Yeah, but what is it? So this does what it does. Yeah. It's a matrix modification to an. Um, it's a matrix modification. Yeah. So, uh. Well. Yeah. So the values that are a in an image are altered by the matrix of numbers. Yeah. So a filter is a matrix of numbers if it's this correct. Um you typically use it in operations such as convolution or correlation. It's also synonymous with kernel. So if you use uh deep learning model then typically the filters in a deep learning layer are called kernels. Um, and today we're going to talk about a special type of filter. And that's this Gabor filter. But before I go into the, uh, the whole Gabor filter, uh, topic, I want to ask, um. One second. The pointer refuses to to cooperate. Come on. Should I click here? Huh? Okay. Now it wants to work again. Um, we had, uh, reading material for this lecture. Did any of you have time to to look over the reading material? Yeah. More or less. Okay. Um. So before I talk about, uh, uh, Gabor filters, we have to go a bit into a recap on, uh, Fourier transform because it builds on the concept of Fourier transform. So that's something you discussed about, I believe, uh, lecture ago. Um, what does a Fourier transform do intuitively? Any thoughts? Like what? What do we do with the Fourier transform? Yes, it will change the frequencies. We transform signals into frequencies. Or any other thoughts more precisely. We decompose the signal into its component frequencies. Indeed. That's that's, uh. Correct. Yeah.
