The Math and Euler’s Formula
And now a bit of smart. Don't get scared about it. I'm going to try to explain to you the actual formula. So when you apply the the Fourier transform, you're actually moving into a different coordinate system. So you're initially in the x y coordinate system. You're in the image coordinate system typically images when you're in codomain computers you have the zero zero uh coordinate the the top left corner. And you have the an m in this case n minus one m minus one. Because we start counting from zero at the bottom right corner. And then when we move to the Fourier domain, all of a sum of the zero zero is here. And we also don't call it x and y anymore. We call it u and v to avoid a confusion, because then the coordinates of the Fourier transform of the Fourier domain are not pixel coordinates anymore. They are frequencies. So every point in the Fourier domain represents a certain frequency. Um, and if you look at the, the formula here, uh, you have the Fourier transform at the certain u, v the frequency combinations. So like column row. So a certain point here in the, in the Fourier domain, uh, it's actually a sum over x and y's in the image domain. So you're actually going over the complete image. You're going over all the pixels in your image. And then you're doing this weighted combination of your images and those pixels with this e to the power I minus uh two pi something something. Um, and that's the Fourier transform. And what's this thingy here in green? Does this anyone know what this is to the power minus two pi stuff is. Yeah. So the real application. Yeah, yeah. So if you remember the sampling lecture there, we talked a bit about Euler uh formula. And this is actually the equivalent uh it's the Euler's equivalent of sines and cosines. So it's this is an imaginary plus uh a real part. And then we can actually see it, um, written in uh, the equation. So indeed it's a complex number. So that's also something to note about. Fourier transform actually gives you back complex numbers. It gives you a number at every, uh, location in the frequency domain on the grid with the real and an imaginary part. And then if you remember this, this slide from the, uh, the sampling lecture there, we talked about. Well, if I have a complex numbers that equals a plus B I. Then Euler's formula says that I can also write the same number as cos plus i sin theta. So that's that's how to to to realise why. Why does uh. Fourier transform become a combination of of sines and cosines. And why do I say well, when we I want to approximate the signal, we're actually, uh, um, creating these linear combinations of sines and cosines. It actually comes from the actual formulation of, of how Fourier transform is defined, is defined us as this e to the power minus two pi here. And that's actually sine plus cosine. So that's that's why we're approximating a signal with sinusoids. So we have the we have the, uh, complex numbers. Um, and we saw that this can be written with Euler's formula into um. Sines and cosines. So that means we can also write the Fourier transform like this. We can also write it as cos of this thingy here minus I sin sine of this thingy here. This the same formulation. It's equivalent.
