Calculating Magnitude, Phase, and Localization
Um, and I believe in the, uh, in the Friday lecture, you also talked about magnitude and phase of, uh, Fourier transform. Uh, what does the magnitude of the Fourier transform encode? So what? What does it mean? The weights we assigned to each side? Yeah, yeah. Actually, it's just very good. So it's indeed it's how much each sinusoid contributes to create back the the, uh, original signal. So how important is this specific sinusoid in in creating in approximating the signal that we want to approximate. Because in the end, with discrete Fourier transform, we want to approximate, um, a signal with a combination of sinusoids. Um, yes. So that's how much each sinusoid contributes to create the whole image and the phase. What does the phase, uh, encode? This is a bit more difficult, I have to say. I myself find it very difficult to get a bit of intuition about the phase, so it's, uh, it's hard to visualise it in your in your heads mind because with, with magnitude it's clearer. Okay. It's, it's how important this sinusoid is. But with phase like what's what's phase. Any thoughts? What does the phase do? You could. There are no wrong answers, guys. So, like, you can just say whatever crosses your mind and then we're going to think about it. Yeah. Uh, I mean, the phase, uh, is responsible for shifting, uh, sincerely. So maybe it's responsible for shifting. Also where the data is on the original image. Um, I think I think you're very close to to getting an indication of of what exactly the phase does or indeed, I believe this is the picture you also saw in in the lecture. Of course, I just added colours to it, but the phase is indeed a shift into where the sinusoid starts. Um, and what you have to think about is when you approximate an image as a combination of sinusoids... you may want different of the sinusoids to start at a different point along the side. Because then when you add them together, then you can create different variations in your pattern. And it's the same thing with images. You shift them. So they start with the different point and then the 0,0. Then you actually can generate different factors in your approximation. So how do we compute the magnitudes or also called the amplitude of the Fourier uh, transform? Do you guys know how to compute the magnitude of a complex number? Yeah. How do you do that? The square root of the real part squared, plus the imaginary parts. Precisely. That's exactly it. And that's exactly how we compute the the, uh, magnitude of the Fourier transform. So it's, it's the, the absolute value of this, uh, complex number, which is like the real part squared plus the imaginary squared and the square root of it. Uh, how about the phase? Does anyone have any idea how you would compute the phase of the Fourier transform? We're going to try to compute the angle of the Fourier transform. Um and that is. The arctangent of the imaginary part divided by the real part. Some of the Fourier values. And that gives me the phase. And the phase looks like this. It's it's not very informative. It's it's hard to to figure out what's in there. It's pretty much says at every frequency in this Fourier domain, at every UV frequencies: How much do I have to shift this sine such, uh, that I can reconstruct the, uh, original signal.
