Visualizing Domain and Magnitude vs. Phase
Um, and now I'm going to go a bit and try to build a bit of intuition of what Fourier does over images. So, for example, here, uh, we're in the Fourier domain. So this is the, the u axis. And this is the v axis. And then you have sinusoids across the, the, the, in the U direction and in the V direction. Um, and these are all complex numbers. So that means they have a real part and an imaginary part. So at every point in the Fourier domain you have a complex number. So f of u and v is actually a complex number which means it has a cos in a sine. And the cos in the sign correspond to a sinusoid with a certain frequency, and the frequency is given by u and v. So it's the frequency on the x direction. Here you don't have any frequency in the y direction is constant. Here you have only frequency in the y direction. And you have no frequency in the x direction. And you have both frequencies in the x direction in the y direction. And that's how to understand the Fourier domain on images. Are there any words I've said so far or things I've mentioned that that's or confusing or. You are not familiar with. Okay. Then I'm going to ask you to. Okay. There was another thing I wanted to mention. People typically refer to this. This. This thing is here as sinusoids. And you're going to be like, yeah, but it's of course in sound. Why do we call them sinusoids? Well, that's because actually you can convert a cos into a sine there. This there's a correspondence formula. So you could just say okay. It's all sines. In my perspective it's just a two pi shift uh, in the angle. So who cares? I can just say it's just a combination of shifted sines. Um, so I'm going to do a little quiz to see how much of, of of this, uh, Fourier stuff uh, we got or how much intuition we have about the Fourier domain. So I'd like you to match the images here with the their Fourier correspondence. Uh, uh, below. So let's start with image one. Which one of the the Fourier components do you think it belongs to that? Uh, image one. And I thought it's. C. Okay. Um. That's correct. But I shouldn't say that because now you have less options to guess. Wrong. Uh, in which, uh, two. What would it be? Any other thoughts? Somebody else wants to guess. What would be the corresponding, uh, image? Maybe because it seems more complex. It seems more complex. Um. Yeah, yeah. And then of course, then we have image three that then is left over with, with uh Fourier. So you can expect these kind of questions in the exam. Just, just a heads up. It's something that, that you have to get a bit, uh, accustomed to. How do you interpret the, uh, correspondence between an image and its Fourier component? And indeed, what you can see here is that there's a lot of, uh, frequencies along this direction. And that's what you see here also. Right? So you have a lot of sinusoids with different frequencies, but they are all under the same orientation. So that's that's what gives up. So I would have guessed this one first. And then this one is similar to this one. But then it goes in two directions. Right. Because you have the bricks that go have edges in both directions. And then this one is a bit of a combination of a whole bunch of directions. So you have like variations in the image that goes across multiple, uh, sinusoid directions.
