Gabor Filters and Wavelets
Looking at the Fourier transform. Can we say something about the frequencies present, for example, here in it? Let's say I'm really curious about... I really want to know what are the frequencies present in the sky area of, of this image. Could I find him back here? Yeah. I don't think there's a lot. Why not? Indeed. There's not much information about where these pixels are here. Because it's not, uh, proposition. All the pixels in the image contribute to a single point in the Fourier domain. So therefore I cannot say where are the pixels, for example, here in the background. Where do they fall in in this area. Because they contributed to every single bin here. Because of that, because it's it's averaged over all the x y points, we actually say the Fourier transform is a global transformation. It's not a local transformation. It doesn't tell us something about the specific pixel. Um, do you guys know a local transformation? Image filtering. Exactly. Convolution. That is a local transformation. Can anyone explain to me why? Because if I take this filter or kernel, I apply it over every pixel in the image. So for every pixel in the input image you have a value in the output image. So that is a local transformation because then it says something about that specific pixel. How that specific pixel together with its neighbouring pixels do something. Typically when we work with images, we want to say something about the regions in the images. We want to say something about what's the local information, not only the global information. And that's what the Gabor filters do. The Gabor filters allow us to, uh, look at the frequencies present in specific parts of the image. So it's sort of a localised version of the, uh, Fourier transform. And for that, I'm going to just shortly introduce the idea of, uh, a wavelet. So wavelet actually means a short wave. And Gabor filters are wavelets, so they are short waves. And here's a sine wave. Um, and a wavelet is a short version of this. So it's a version that it's all only has values in a, in a limited window. And for the rest it doesn't exist. Gabor filters give us localised frequencies. They are a sine wave and now imagine that I just take uh, a cut through the, the image. And here red means uh, minus one and then blue means plus one. And then I put a Gaussian hat so Gaussian kernel on top of this sine wave. And then what happens with the Gaussian. It has the zero values here outside of the hat and only values underneath this hat. And now if I multiply this with each other. I get a wavelet. I get a squashed sine wave that has values only underneath the Gaussian hat. This is an example of a Gabor wavelet. And then I can use this to convolve the image with just as you learned in the convolution lecture. And that will tell me how much of this sine frequency is a different location in the image. Next to giving us localised frequencies, the, the Gabor wavelets also give us localised orientations. So I can take this, this sine wave now and I can rotate it with different angles. Does anyone have an idea of...
