Fourier Transform Intuition and 2D Images
You can also go the other way around so it can signal other things. You can also do it the other way around. That's true. Yeah. You can create, for example, a song or something out of combining different frequencies. That's true. Um. And how do you do that? Precisely. Like, what do you do to to apply Fourier transform to a signal? No, no. Clear, clear idea on how we do that. Let's see if, um. If we get a more clear idea. Um, so what Fourier transform does is. Imagine this is your, your time domain. So now we're talking about 1D signal. We're going to talk about images later on. Um this is your time domain. And you have this blocky signal. And what you want to do is indeed you want to find what are the frequencies that create the signal. And you do that by approximating the signal with a linear combination of sinusoids. So these are sinusoids in, in, uh, blue and in green and in red and in orange. And they all have different frequencies. And then you say how much of, of the green wave do I have to put into the signal? How much of the red wave do I have to put to be able to create back the signal that I started with? So that's what Fourier transform intuitively does. It's it's creates this combination of sinusoids that approximates the the signal and typically Fourier transform, of course. Uh, it's the continuous Fourier transform goes up to an infinity of this, this sinusoids. But in practice when we work with computers we use discrete Fourier transform. So then it's an approximation of a signal as good as possible. Um. So. As I said in in the previous slide, what we do is we decompose the input signal into, uh, sinusoids and we do the same thing with images. So that was for 1D signal. And this is for, uh, an image. And then for an image. The Fourier transform is a two dimensional transform, not a one dimensional transform. So for example, if I have a purely greyscale image. The Fourier transform of it will just be, uh, the zero zero component. It will be the average of the image, pretty much. Um, if you have an image that contains one sinusoid that varies along the x axis, um, then you're going to have two points around the centre. So this is the zero zero component in the Fourier transform. And this is a certain frequency. And then the mirrored one because Fourier transform is um symmetric domain. So it is symmetric uh around zero zero. So that's why you have the mirrored uh version of this frequency. That's the frequency of this sinusoid. The same thing if you have a, uh, sinusoid that goes along the, uh, vertical direction along the Y direction, then you have two frequencies along the, uh, the vertical direction. It's actually the mirrored the actual frequency in the mirrored version of it. And then if you have a blocky pattern, then you would get, uh, a little, uh, cross, uh, of, of dots from the two combined frequencies and they're mirrored versions. What is the distance between these points? How far they are? Do you have an idea why? Why are these three points further away than this? Three points here, for example. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. So this is the zero zero frequency. This has a low frequency. A low frequency means it changes slowly. A high frequency means it changes very fast. This has a higher frequency. It changes a lot faster from black to dark, uh, from black to white and back. So then it's further away from the zero zero component.
