George Hadley looked in at the changed scene. "Go to bed," he said to the children. They opened their mouths. "You heard me," he said. They went off to the air closet, where a wind sucked them like brown leaves up the flue to their slumber rooms. George Hadley walked through the glade and picked up something that lay in the corner near where the lions had been. He walked slowly back to his wife. "What is that?" she asked. "An old wallet of mine," he said. He showed it to her. The smell of hot grass was on it, as well as the smell of a lion. There were drops of saliva on it; it had been chewed, and there were blood smears on both sides. He closed the nursery door and locked it, tight. In the middle of the night he was still awake and he knew his wife was awake. "Do you think Wendy changed it?" she said at last, in the dark room. "Of course." "Made it from a veldt into a forest and put Rima there instead of lions?" "Yes." "Why?" "I don't know. But it's staying locked until I find out." "How did your wallet get there?" "I don't know anything," he said, "except that I'm beginning to be sorry we bought that room for the children. If the children are neurotic at all, a room like that -" "It's supposed to help them work off their neuroses in a healthful way." "I'm starting to wonder." He stared at the ceiling. "We've given the children everything they ever wanted. Is this our reward - secrecy, disobedience?!" "Who was it that said, 'Children are carpets, they should be stepped on occasionally'? We've never lifted a hand. They're insufferable - let's admit it. They come and go when they like; they treat us as if we were offspring. They're spoiled and we're spoiled." "They've been acting funny ever since you forbade them to take the rocket to New York a few months ago." "They're not old enough to do that alone, I explained." "Nevertheless, I've noticed they've been decidedly cool toward us since." "I think I'll have David McClean come tomorrow morning to have a look at Africa." "But it's not Africa now, it's green mountains country and Rima." "I have a feeling it'll be Africa again before then." A moment later they heard the screams. Two screams. Two people screaming from downstairs. And then a roar of lions. "Wendy and Peter aren't in their rooms," said his wife. He lay in his bed with his beating heart. "No," he said. "They've broken into the nursery." "Those screams - they sound familiar!" "Do they?" "Yes, awfully." And although their beds tried very hard, the two adults couldn't be rocked to sleep for another hour. A smell of cats was in the night air.
