"Run outside a moment, children," said George Hadley. "No, don't change the mental combination. Leave the walls as they are. Get!" With the children gone, the two men stood studying the lions clustered at a distance, eating with great relish whatever it was they had caught. "I wish I knew what it was," said George Hadley. "Sometimes I can almost see. Do you think if I brought high-powered binoculars here and -" David McClean laughed dryly. "Hardly." He turned to study all four walls. "How long has this been going on?" "A little over a month," replied George. "It certainly doesn't feel good," said David McClean. "I want facts, not feelings," said George. "My dear George, a psychologist never saw a fact in his life. He only knows about feelings; vague things. This doesn't feel good, I tell you. Trust my hunches and my instincts. I have a nose for something bad. This is very bad. My advice to you is to have the whole damn room torn down and your children brought to me every day during the next year for treatment." "Is it that bad?" "I'm afraid so. One of the original uses of these nurseries was so that we could study the patterns left on the walls by the child's mind, study at our leisure, and help the child. In this case, however, the room has become a channel toward destructive thoughts, instead of a release away from them." "Didn't you sense this before?" "I sensed only that you had spoiled your children more than most. And now you're letting them down in some way. What way?" "I wouldn't let them go to New York." "What else?" "I've taken a few machines from the house and threatened them, a month ago, with closing up the nursery unless they did their homework. I did close it for a few days to show I meant business." "A-ha!" "Does that mean anything?" "Everything! Where before they had a Santa Claus now they have a Scrooge. Children prefer Santas. You've let this room and this house replace you and your wife in your children's affections. This room is their mother and father, far more important in their lives than their real parents. And now you come along and want to shut it off. No wonder there's hatred here. You can feel it coming out of the sky. Feel that sun! George, you'll have to change your life. Like too many others, you've built it around comforts. Why, you'd starve tomorrow if something went wrong in your kitchen. You wouldn't know how to crack an egg. Turn everything off! Start new. It'll take time. But we'll make good children out of bad in a year, wait and see."
