Lydia bolted and ran. Instinctively, George sprang after her. Outside, in the hall, with the door slammed he was laughing and she was crying, and they both stood appalled at the other's reaction. "George!" "Lydia! Oh my poor, sweet Lydia!" "They almost got us!" "Walls, Lydia, remember - crystal walls, that's all they are. Oh, they look real, I must admit - Africa in your parlor - but it's all dimensional, super-reactionary, supersensitive color film and mental tape film behind glass screens. It's all odorophonics and sonics, Lydia. Here's my handkerchief." "I'm afraid." She came to him and put her body against him and cried steadily. "Did you see? Did you feel? It's too real!" "Now, Lydia..." "You've got to tell Wendy and Peter not to read any more on Africa." "Of course - of course..." he patted her. "Promise?" "Sure." "And lock the nursery for a few days until my nerves get settled." "You know how difficult Peter is about that. When I punished him a month ago by locking the nursery for even a few hours - the tantrum he threw! And Wendy too! They live for the nursery." "It's got to be locked, that's all there is to it." "Alright." Reluctantly, he locked the huge door. "You've been working too hard. You need a rest." "I don't know - I don't know," she said, blowing her nose, sitting down in a chair that immediately began to rock and comfort her. "Maybe I don't have enough to do. Maybe I have time to think too much. Why don't we shut the whole house off for a few days and take a vacation?" "You mean you want to fry my eggs for me?" "Yes," she nodded. "And fold my socks?" "Yes!" she replied with frantic, watery-eyed nodding. "And sweep the house?" "Yes, yes - oh, yes!" "But I thought that's why we bought this house, so we wouldn't have to do anything?" "That's just it. I feel like I don't belong here. The house is wife and mother now, and nursemaid. Can I compete with an African veldt? Can I give a bath and scrub the children as efficiently or quickly as the automatic scrub bath can? I cannot. And it isn't just me. It's you. You've been awfully nervous lately." "I suppose I have been smoking too much." "You look as if you didn't know what to do with yourself in this house, either. You smoke a little more every morning and drink a little more every afternoon and need a little more sedative every night. You're beginning to feel unnecessary too." "Am I?" He paused and tried to feel into himself to see what was really there. "Oh, George!" She looked beyond him, at the nursery door. "Those lions can't get out of there, can they?" He looked at the door and saw it tremble as if something had jumped against it from the other side. "Of course not," he said.
