At dinner they ate alone, for Wendy and Peter were at a special carnival across town and had televised home to say they'd be late; to go ahead eating without them. So George Hadley, bemused, sat watching the dining-room table produce warm dishes of food from its mechanical interior. "We forgot the ketchup," he said. "Sorry," said a small voice within the table, and ketchup appeared. As for the nursery, thought George Hadley, it wouldn't hurt for the children to be locked out of it awhile. Too much of anything isn't good for anyone. And it was clearly indicated that the children had been spending a little too much time on Africa. That sun. He could feel it on his neck, still, like a hot paw. And the lions. And the smell of blood. Remarkable how the nursery caught the telepathic emanations of the children's minds and created life to fill their every desire. The children thought of lions, and there were lions. The children thought of zebras, and there were zebras. Sun - sun. Giraffes - giraffes. Death - death. That last one. He chewed tastelessly on the meat that the table had cut for him. Death thoughts...they were awfully young, Wendy and Peter, for death thoughts. Or, no, you were never too young, really. Long before you knew what death was you were wishing it on someone else. When you were two-years-old you were shooting people with cap pistols. But this - the long, hot African veldt-the awful death in the jaws of a lion. And repeated again and again. "Where are you going?" asked Lydia. He didn't answer her. Preoccupied, he let the lights glow softly on ahead of him, extinguish behind him as he padded to the nursery door. He listened against it. Far away, a lion roared. He unlocked the door and opened it. Just before he stepped inside, he heard a faraway scream. And then another roar from the lions, which subsided quickly. He stepped into Africa. How many times in the last year had he opened this door and found Wonderland, Alice, the caterpillar, or Aladdin and his Magical Lamp, or the Wizard of Oz, or Dr. Doolittle, or the cow jumping over a very real-appearing moon? This room had all the delightful contraptions of a make-believe world. How often had he seen Pegasus flying in the sky ceiling, or seen fountains of red fireworks, or heard 150 angel voices singing. But now, it was yellow hot Africa; this oven with murder in the heat. Perhaps Lydia was right. Perhaps they needed a little vacation from the fantasy which was growing a bit too real for ten-year-old children. It was okay to exercise one's mind with gymnastic fantasies, but when the lively child mind settled on one pattern? It seemed that, at a distance, for the past month, he had heard lions roaring, and smelled their strong odor seeping as far away as his study door. But, being busy, he had paid it no attention.
